# Fedbatch-optimization
Project of the optimization discipline from Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Abstract of the project:


The growing accumulation of plastics in soil and water has a progressively detrimental global impact. While solutions have been proposed for many years, substituting fossil-based plastics with polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) bioplastics represents one of the most promising options. The production of \acrshort{pha}, a type of biopolyester that can accumulate as an intracellular component in various bacteria types, is hindered by high production costs, limiting its scalability. The objective of this study was to obtain optimal feed profiles from know feed functions by utilizing penalization and linear optimization methods to maximize production of \acrfull{phb} in a fed-batch reactor, employing the \textit{Ralstonia eutropha} strain. The three linear optimization methods, Powell, Nelder-Mead, and Trust-Constr, were compared in the study. The aim was to maximize non-linear problems with non-linear restrictions using penalization function and hyperbolic function with smoothing. The maximum production results were presented, and the study found that the Trust-Constr method produced 62.9 g and 58 g of PHB after 25 and 18 hours, respectively, using the constant and pulse function. The Trust-Constr method was deemed the most effective with superior overall performance. The production outcomes achieved through the local optimizers demonstrated similarities for the majority of the analyzed feed functions. The convergence of the results was also contingent upon the convexity of the feed function and initialization parameters.
